---
x-trestle-comp-def-rules:
  GitHub Actions:
    - name: properly-configured
      description: System Owner has configured the system to properly utilize CI/CD
        for all tests, scans, and deployments
x-trestle-global:
  profile:
    title: 'Lightweight Security Authorization Process: System Security and Privacy
      Plan'
    href: trestle://profiles/lato/profile.json
  sort-id: sa-11.01
---

# sa-11.1 - \[\] Static Code Analysis

## Control Statement

Require the developer of the system, system component, or system service to employ static code analysis tools to identify common flaws and document the results of the analysis.

## Control Assessment Objective

- \[SA-11(01)[01]\] the developer of the system, system component, or system service is required to employ static code analysis tools to identify common flaws;

- \[SA-11(01)[02]\] the developer of the system, system component, or system service is required to employ static code analysis tools to document the results of the analysis.

## Control guidance

Static code analysis provides a technology and methodology for security reviews and includes checking for weaknesses in the code as well as for the incorporation of libraries or other included code with known vulnerabilities or that are out-of-date and not supported. Static code analysis can be used to identify vulnerabilities and enforce secure coding practices. It is most effective when used early in the development process, when each code change can automatically be scanned for potential weaknesses. Static code analysis can provide clear remediation guidance and identify defects for developers to fix. Evidence of the correct implementation of static analysis can include aggregate defect density for critical defect types, evidence that defects were inspected by developers or security professionals, and evidence that defects were remediated. A high density of ignored findings, commonly referred to as false positives, indicates a potential problem with the analysis process or the analysis tool. In such cases, organizations weigh the validity of the evidence against evidence from other sources.

______________________________________________________________________

## What is the solution and how is it implemented?

<!-- For implementation status enter one of: implemented, partial, planned, alternative, not-applicable -->

<!-- Note that the list of rules under ### Rules: is read-only and changes will not be captured after assembly to JSON -->

### This System

<!-- Add implementation prose for the main This System component for control: sa-11.1 -->

#### Implementation Status: planned

### GitHub Actions

The CI/CD pipeline utilizes multiple tools to perform static code analysis for security and privacy:

* **Brakeman** is a static code scanner designed to find security issues in Ruby on Rails code. It can flag potential SQL injection,
Command Injection, open redirects, and other common vulnerabilities.
* **bundle-audit** checks Ruby dependencies against a database of known CVE numbers.
* **yarn audit** checks Javascript dependencies against a database of known CVE numbers.
* **OWASP ZAP** is a dynamic security scanner that can simulate actual attacks on a running server.

An additional RAILS_ENV has been created called ci. It inherits from production to ensure that the system being tested is as close as possible to production while allowing for overrides such as bypassing authentication in a secure way.

#### Rules:

  - properly-configured

#### Implementation Status: implemented

______________________________________________________________________
