---
x-trestle-comp-def-rules:
  Cloud.gov:
    - name: app-event-analysis
      description: Application owners are responsible for using automated tools to
        analyze cloud.gov-supplied events feed
x-trestle-global:
  profile:
    title: 'Lightweight Security Authorization Process: System Security and Privacy
      Plan'
    href: trestle://profiles/lato/profile.json
  sort-id: si-04.02
---

# si-4.2 - \[\] Automated Tools and Mechanisms for Real-time Analysis

## Control Statement

Employ automated tools and mechanisms to support near real-time analysis of events.

## Control Assessment Objective

automated tools and mechanisms are employed to support a near real-time analysis of events.

## Control guidance

Automated tools and mechanisms include host-based, network-based, transport-based, or storage-based event monitoring tools and mechanisms or security information and event management (SIEM) technologies that provide real-time analysis of alerts and notifications generated by organizational systems. Automated monitoring techniques can create unintended privacy risks because automated controls may connect to external or otherwise unrelated systems. The matching of records between these systems may create linkages with unintended consequences. Organizations assess and document these risks in their privacy impact assessment and make determinations that are in alignment with their privacy program plan.

______________________________________________________________________

## What is the solution and how is it implemented?

<!-- For implementation status enter one of: implemented, partial, planned, alternative, not-applicable -->

<!-- Note that the list of rules under ### Rules: is read-only and changes will not be captured after assembly to JSON -->

### This System

<!-- Add implementation prose for the main This System component for control: si-4.2 -->

#### Implementation Status: planned

### Cloud.gov

cloud.gov supplies a real-time feed of events related to customer applications. Application owners are responsible for using automated tools to interpret and analyze these events.

#### Rules:

  - app-event-analysis

#### Implementation Status: partial

______________________________________________________________________
