---
x-trestle-add-props: []
  # Add or modify control properties here
  # Properties may be at the control or part level
  # Add control level properties like this:
  #   - name: ac1_new_prop
  #     value: new property value
  #
  # Add properties to a statement part like this, where "b." is the label of the target statement part
  #   - name: ac1_new_prop
  #     value: new property value
  #     smt-part: b.
  #
x-trestle-comp-def-rules:
  GitHub Actions:
    - name: properly-configured
      description: System Owner has configured the system to properly utilize CI/CD
        for all tests, scans, and deployments
x-trestle-set-params:
  # You may set values for parameters in the assembled SSP by adding
  #
  # ssp-values:
  #   - value 1
  #   - value 2
  #
  # below a section of values:
  # The values list refers to the values in the resolved profile catalog, and the ssp-values represent new values
  # to be placed in SetParameters of the SSP.
  #
  si-10_odp:
    guidelines:
      - prose: information inputs to the system requiring validity checks are defined;
    values:
      - 'character set, length, numerical range, and acceptable values; verifies that
        inputs match specified definitions for format and content as it relates to:
        (1) Username and password combinations. (2) Attributes used to validate a
        password reset request (e.g., security questions). (3) Personally identifiable
        information (excluding unique user name identifiers provided as a normal part
        of a transactional record). (4) Biometric data or personal characteristics
        used to authenticate identity. (5) Sensitive financial records (e.g., account
        numbers, access codes). (6) Content related to internal security functions:
        private encryption keys, whitelist or blacklist rules, object permission attributes
        and settings'
    alt-identifier: si-10_prm_1
x-trestle-global:
  profile:
    title: 'Lightweight Security Authorization Process: System Security and Privacy
      Plan'
    href: trestle://profiles/lato/profile.json
  sort-id: si-10
---

# si-10 - \[System and Information Integrity\] Information Input Validation

## Control Statement

Check the validity of the following information inputs: [character set, length, numerical range, and acceptable values; verifies that inputs match specified definitions for format and content as it relates to: (1) Username and password combinations. (2) Attributes used to validate a password reset request (e.g., security questions). (3) Personally identifiable information (excluding unique user name identifiers provided as a normal part of a transactional record). (4) Biometric data or personal characteristics used to authenticate identity. (5) Sensitive financial records (e.g., account numbers, access codes). (6) Content related to internal security functions: private encryption keys, whitelist or blacklist rules, object permission attributes and settings].

## Control Assessment Objective

the validity of the [character set, length, numerical range, and acceptable values; verifies that inputs match specified definitions for format and content as it relates to: (1) Username and password combinations. (2) Attributes used to validate a password reset request (e.g., security questions). (3) Personally identifiable information (excluding unique user name identifiers provided as a normal part of a transactional record). (4) Biometric data or personal characteristics used to authenticate identity. (5) Sensitive financial records (e.g., account numbers, access codes). (6) Content related to internal security functions: private encryption keys, whitelist or blacklist rules, object permission attributes and settings] is checked.

## Control guidance

Checking the valid syntax and semantics of system inputs—including character set, length, numerical range, and acceptable values—verifies that inputs match specified definitions for format and content. For example, if the organization specifies that numerical values between 1-100 are the only acceptable inputs for a field in a given application, inputs of "387," "abc," or "%K%" are invalid inputs and are not accepted as input to the system. Valid inputs are likely to vary from field to field within a software application. Applications typically follow well-defined protocols that use structured messages (i.e., commands or queries) to communicate between software modules or system components. Structured messages can contain raw or unstructured data interspersed with metadata or control information. If software applications use attacker-supplied inputs to construct structured messages without properly encoding such messages, then the attacker could insert malicious commands or special characters that can cause the data to be interpreted as control information or metadata. Consequently, the module or component that receives the corrupted output will perform the wrong operations or otherwise interpret the data incorrectly. Prescreening inputs prior to passing them to interpreters prevents the content from being unintentionally interpreted as commands. Input validation ensures accurate and correct inputs and prevents attacks such as cross-site scripting and a variety of injection attacks.

______________________________________________________________________

## What is the solution and how is it implemented?

<!-- For implementation status enter one of: implemented, partial, planned, alternative, not-applicable -->

<!-- Note that the list of rules under ### Rules: is read-only and changes will not be captured after assembly to JSON -->

### This System

<!-- Add implementation prose for the main This System component for control: si-10 -->

#### Implementation Status: planned

### GitHub Actions

All inputs from the end user are parameterized prior to use to avoid potential sql injection.

Brakeman scanner is impelmented within GitHub Actions which further identifies coding practices
that may lead to application vulnerabilities that are a result of improper input validation.

#### Rules:

  - properly-configured

#### Implementation Status: partial

______________________________________________________________________
